My computer problems explained.
Welcome to our article (111) Microsoft computer problems

Today I am having problems with my laptop computer, so, I am asking myself, if this problem is happening only to me, or there are other people that are in the same position; so, let me explain my position, because I am thinking, what is wrong with my laptop computer system, when I am using it, and it does not work, like it did before.

You see, I am having problems saving my work on my computer hard drive. So, I am writing this complain on the internet, because it is the easiest way to let the people that use the computer and those that run the computer know the problems that I have, because I am upset to say the least. Let me explain the way I see it. I pay for my internet connection and I pay for Microsoft Office software. But lately I cannot use them on my laptop because it says that it is illegal. How can it be illegal if I have paid for them?

I believe that this problem arises, because they have changed the programs and I am forced to save everything to One drive, so, I cannot save anything to my laptop computer. But not only that, I also cannot edit anything in One drive because for them it is illegal.

But who is the illegal party here? I have paid my share, so, what else they want? If they want more money, then it would be illegal the way the computer system is run. Anyhow, I am saying this because I am upset and not able to sort my computer problems. I know that I do not know much about how to sort this problem. So, I hope there is an easy way, and somebody tells me how to do it, or fix it for me.

Anyhow, let me say what I believe can work. Since in the past I could open, write, and save my documents on this laptop PC hard drive that I was working with; then if I wanted them to be on One drive, I could save a copy to One drive and it worked well. So, I do not understand why they had to change that and drive me crazy.

I hope I have explained my problem, and there is somebody there that can fix it. I will continue to write other articles on the internet, until I find a solution.

This is how this program One Drive appears

This is how I want to see my computer work.
I know that everybody has a different way to use their computer. But what I have found today for me is very upsetting because I would like to use my computer the same way I have always used and I cannot, because everything is saved to the cloud or to give it another name One Drive.

Now, I believe that it is easier to start a new page in words or excel, save it to your computer, and then, if you want to save it for good copy it to One cloud. By doing it my way, if it happens that there is no internet available, you can still do what you must do, and when the internet comes back, if you want you can save your work to One drive.

I am also worried that if for some reason there is no internet for several days, there will be a lot of people that will be completely lost, so, what I am suggesting here could be what needs to be done. But that is up to Microsoft to work it out, which is the best way to go about. You see what I am saying here is only the best way for me.

Anyhow, I have looked on the internet how to save your work to your pc, and it says that it can be done. But I tried several times to reset my laptop to save on this pc, and it did not work; so, I must think about another way how to do it, and this is very upsetting.

This is how Window 10 sign appears

When the window ten program came out, we all seemed to have problems to use it, but now we all know how to use it. I hope that the same thing will happen with One Drive program, we have to learn how to use it.

Things I have done to fix my computer.
Anyhow, since I am paying the internet connection and Microsoft Office program, I have decided to call them for help, and I did. The outcome was partly successful, since I can at least edit when I use One drive, but still, I cannot save directly to my computer.

Sometimes I wonder why, as soon as you have learned how to use a program, they will change it, so, you must learn again what to do to keep doing what you need to do, it is a bit annoying to say the least. It is the same old story again and again; we have to learn how to use these new programs. I remember that when window 10 came out, we were lost for a while, but later when we learned how to use it, it was alright, I hope that the same thing happens now.

Anyhow, I believe that Microsoft must make things a bit easier to use. But sing things are the way they are; I must have another chat to Microsoft, in the hope that they can set my computer to save my own files on my laptop.

Anyhow I am still wondering if this is happening only to me, or there are other people that are having the same problem, and if they are, what are they doing to fix it.

This is all what I need to say now. I will come back to it if I need to add something else.

See you soon.